Project Idea-1:

Project Title: Crop produce prediction based on various conditions

Project idea description: Based on temperature, weather conditions and soil moisture of particular location, the system will be able to suggest farmers which crop will be most beneficial to grow in those conditions. The farmer can focus all his resources to produce this crop and yield a lot of profit. Also, when the natural limitations are involved in deciding the crop, the land retains its fertility and is not exploited through means of artificial methods of harvest, to produce an undesirable crop. The farmer does not have to spend too much too, as natural means of harvesting are always less expensive than their counterpart. So this is a win-win situation!  Our system will be using Machine learning algorithm :Multiple linear regression to make predictions for farmers.

Goal: Farmers and other agriculture enthusiasts, so that they can choose the crop carefully for their farm and this would mitigate the risk of less produce due to climatic and soil conditions.

Technology stack:
Web technologies: HTML, CSS, Java script
Cloud: AWS EC2,Docker
Machine Learning framework: TensorFlow 
 
Project Idea-2:

Project Title:  Abusive remarks: Monitoring and removal.

Project Idea Description:We are living in an era of Internet communication. The invention of mobiles has helped communication between 2 people very easy and fast. But with social platforms like Facebook, billions of people are reachable, with just one click. Before we take a moment to appreciate this, we need to think about the cons of this situation. How can we limit the possibility of being influenced by negative forces in the society, when everyone can express what they want on such platforms? Not everyone has a feeling of social responsibility. How can we exercise control over posts which carry hate speech, abusive language, threat/violence or anything which might seem unparliamentary? The idea for this project has evolved from this very context itself. This project is focused on placing this control over the posts and content on such social platforms and enhancing the user experience. 

Goal:This project will help to reduce any inappropriate remarks and negative propaganda from the social platforms like Facebook and Twitter, all-in-all providing a better user environment.

Technology Stack: 

Dataset: Using Dataset Available on Kaggle
Web technologies: HTML, CSS, Java script
Cloud: AWS EC2,Docker
Machine Learning framework: TensorFlow 

 


Project Idea-3:

Project Title: BookSwap App.

Project Idea Description: A money free Barter System market place where people can share their books on "1-1" swap basis.  Create localized communities both public and private, where users can join(public) or request membership(private) and Exit at any time as long as there are no dues. Communities may be formed among students, colleagues, neighbors etc. who can meet at convenience at public places or comfortable enough to invite home. Users can upload the list of books they are willing to share and a list of books/genres  they are interested in. Using AI/ML, based on past “likes” the app will recommend you with people with books you may like. If both Swipe right, a chat room opens. Users can decide time and Space and can exchange books.  The app will contain remainders as set by the users to complete the returns. We can impose limits on how many books can be in swapped mode for a user at a given Time. Users rate each other upon completion of return based on maintenance of borrowed books and Filters can be set to optimize recommendations limiting to high rated users. 
 
Goal/Intended clients: Provide a safe a convenient and safe marketspace or all people who have books that are collecting dust on their shelves and due to sentiment or intended future use, the clients are not interested in selling them.  For all such users the app provides a safe space among familiar faces to exchange their books on temporary basis and get access to a wide range of books without  wasting money, especially if they hate ebooks and tablets like kindle, and love the feel of  a solid book in their hands and enjoy turning pages rather than swiping on screens . Revenue can be generated by charging membership fees or targeting added based on book preferences. Payment would only be for access to the app – a one-time fee or annual membership. No payment for books. 

Technology Stack: 
Front end: Html5+ Css, Javascript and AngularJS
Backend : Python
Databases: MongoDB/ArangoDB(Graphs)
Platform/Web Server:  CentOs/Apache. 
                           

